README.md, before:

# w8y - A circular work list item processor

## What?
`w8y` (pronounced _weighty_, or _waity_ if you prefer) is simply an executable wrapper that enriches the environment of
the executable to provide it with a work item to process via environment variables and/or command-line arguments.

## How?
`w8y` reads work items from a circular redis list until one is available to process.

List keys are named `<prefix:>list`. The `<prefix:>` comes from the command-line argument `--key-prefix`. If not
supplied it will be blank. Otherwise `w8y` will force it to end in a `:`.

Work items are popped from the left side of the redis circular list and atomically appended to the right side.
This way, no work items are ever lost or removed from the circular list by `w8y` itself. External redis clients can
freely manage the circular list by adding or removing work items at any time.

A work item is eligible to process if and only if a **processing key** named after the list value does _not_ exist.

Processing keys are named `<prefix:>proc:<work item>`. The value of the work item is included in this key so the
work item value should be relatively short. Ideally, work items should be simple references like unique identifiers and
not be the actual work payload to be operated on (e.g. a JSON payload).

If no work item is eligible after traversing the list once then `w8y` returns with exit code 0. The list's
length is queried before traversal to provide a stopping point.

The specified executable is spawned to handle the work item as a child process of `w8y`. `w8y` waits for the child
process to exit and then deletes the processing key from redis. `w8y` finally exits with the child process's exit code.

Before the child process is spawned, the **processing key** is created in redis and a background thread is spawned to
periodically refresh the key to prevent it from expiring while the child process executes. Once the child process exits,
the processing key is immediately deleted to free it up for processing by the next `w8y` instance to pick it up.

**Assumptions:**
* Redis is available
* The list of work items may change over time, being appended to and removed from

## Command-line arguments
```
Usage:
  w8y [OPTIONS] executable args...

Application Options:
  -u, --redis-url=         Redis URL to connect to (default:
                           redis://localhost:6379)
  -k, --key-prefix=        Redis prefix for all keys
  -x, --key-expiry=        Redis processing key expiry in seconds (default: 5)
  -e, --env-var=           Environment variable name to set work item to
  -c, --continuous         Run continuously
  -i, --exit-codes=        Continue on any of these exit codes returned
                           (default: 0)
  -q, --quiet              Silence output of w8y to capture pure stdout,stderr
                           of spawned executable
  -f, --log-file=          Log to file
  -t, --no-log-timestamps  Disable inclusion of timestamps in log lines

Help Options:
  -h, --help               Show this help message

Arguments:
  args:                    Arguments to pass to executable; use {} as a
                           placeholder for work item value
```

## Spawned Executable
The `executable` argument indicates which executable to spawn to do work. The value is either the name of an executable
searched for in `$PATH` or the absolute path of an executable.

Environment variables from the `w8y` process's environment are passed to the executable.

Command-line arguments after the `executable` required argument are passed to the child process; all placeholder values
of `{}` are replaced with the work item value.

## Examples

```
redis-cli::
127.0.0.1:6379> RPUSH work:list a:0 a:1 a:2 b c d e f g:0 g:1 g:2 g:3 g:4 h i j k l m
(integer) 19

bash::
$ w8y -k work -q echo hello world, {}
hello world, a:0

redis-cli::
127.0.0.1:6379> LRANGE work:list 0 -1
 1) "a:1"
 2) "a:2"
 3) "b"
 4) "c"
 5) "d"
 6) "e"
 7) "f"
 8) "g:0"
 9) "g:1"
10) "g:2"
11) "g:3"
12) "g:4"
13) "h"
14) "i"
15) "j"
16) "k"
17) "l"
18) "m"
19) "a:0"

-- notice the list has rotated "a:0" to the end
```

Commit message:

Renamed processing key to lock key

README.md, after:

# w8y - A circular work list item processor

## What?
`w8y` (pronounced _weighty_, or _waity_ if you prefer) is simply an executable wrapper that enriches the environment of
the executable to provide it with a work item to process via environment variables and/or command-line arguments.

## How?
`w8y` reads work items from a circular redis list until one is available to process.

List keys are named `<prefix:>list`. The `<prefix:>` comes from the command-line argument `--key-prefix`. If not
supplied it will be blank. Otherwise `w8y` will force it to end in a `:`.

Work items are popped from the left side of the redis circular list and atomically appended to the right side.
This way, no work items are ever lost or removed from the circular list by `w8y` itself. External redis clients can
freely manage the circular list by adding or removing work items at any time.

A work item is eligible to process if and only if a **lock key** named after the list value is taken.

Lock keys are named `<prefix:>lock:<work item>`. The value of the work item is included in this key so the
work item value should be relatively short. Ideally, work items should be simple references like unique identifiers and
not be the actual work payload to be operated on (e.g. a JSON payload).

If no work item is eligible after traversing the list once then `w8y` returns with exit code 0. The list's
length is queried before traversal to provide a stopping point.

The specified executable is spawned to handle the work item as a child process of `w8y`. `w8y` waits for the child
process to exit and then deletes the lock key from redis. `w8y` finally exits with the child process's exit code.

Before the child process is spawned, the **lock key** is created in redis and a background thread is spawned to
periodically refresh the key to prevent it from expiring while the child process executes. Once the child process exits,
the lock key is immediately deleted to free it up for processing by the next `w8y` instance to pick it up.

**Assumptions:**
* Redis is available
* The list of work items may change over time, being appended to and removed from

## Command-line arguments
```
Usage:
  w8y [OPTIONS] executable args...

Application Options:
  -u, --redis-url=         Redis URL to connect to (default:
                           redis://localhost:6379)
  -k, --key-prefix=        Redis prefix for all keys
  -x, --key-expiry=        Redis lock key expiry in seconds (default: 5)
  -e, --env-var=           Environment variable name to set work item to
  -c, --continuous         Run continuously
  -i, --exit-codes=        Continue on any of these exit codes returned
                           (default: 0)
  -q, --quiet              Silence output of w8y to capture pure stdout,stderr
                           of spawned executable
  -f, --log-file=          Log to file
  -t, --no-log-timestamps  Disable inclusion of timestamps in log lines

Help Options:
  -h, --help               Show this help message

Arguments:
  args:                    Arguments to pass to executable; use {} as a
                           placeholder for work item value
```

## Spawned Executable
The `executable` argument indicates which executable to spawn to do work. The value is either the name of an executable
searched for in `$PATH` or the absolute path of an executable.

Environment variables from the `w8y` process's environment are passed to the executable.

Command-line arguments after the `executable` required argument are passed to the child process; all placeholder values
of `{}` are replaced with the work item value.

## Examples

```
redis-cli::
127.0.0.1:6379> RPUSH work:list a:0 a:1 a:2 b c d e f g:0 g:1 g:2 g:3 g:4 h i j k l m
(integer) 19

bash::
$ w8y -k work -q echo hello world, {}
hello world, a:0

redis-cli::
127.0.0.1:6379> LRANGE work:list 0 -1
 1) "a:1"
 2) "a:2"
 3) "b"
 4) "c"
 5) "d"
 6) "e"
 7) "f"
 8) "g:0"
 9) "g:1"
10) "g:2"
11) "g:3"
12) "g:4"
13) "h"
14) "i"
15) "j"
16) "k"
17) "l"
18) "m"
19) "a:0"

-- notice the list has rotated "a:0" to the end
```
